\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c This file uses the @command command introduced in Texinfo 4.0.
@c %**start of header
@setfilename xbeach.info
@settitle Xbeach
@finalout
@setchapternewpage odd
@c %**end of header

@set VERSION 0.1.0

@ifinfo
This file documents the @command{xbeach} command which a two-dimensional model for wave propagation, long waves and mean flow, sediment transport and morphological changes of the nearshore area, beaches, dunes and backbarrier during storms.

Copyright (C) 2008 Dano Roelvink

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

@ignore
Permission is granted to process this file through TeX and print the
results, provided the printed document carries copying permission
notice identical to this one except for the removal of this paragraph
(this paragraph not being relevant to the printed manual).

@end ignore
Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by the Foundation.
@end ifinfo

@titlepage
@title xbeach
@subtitle a two-dimensional beach model. 
@subtitle for xbeach Version @value{VERSION}
@author by Dano Roelvink

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Dano Roelvink

Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of
this manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice
are preserved on all copies.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the entire
resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a permission
notice identical to this one.

Permission is granted to copy and distribute translations of this manual
into another language, under the above conditions for modified versions,
except that this permission notice may be stated in a translation approved
by the Foundation.
@end titlepage

@c All the nodes can be updated using the EMACS command
@c texinfo-every-node-update, which is normally bound to C-c C-u C-e.
@node Top, Introduction, (dir), (dir)

@ifinfo
This file documents the @command{xbeach} command to a two-dimensional model for wave propagation, long waves and mean flow, sediment transport and morphological changes of the nearshore area, beaches, dunes and backbarrier during storms..
@end ifinfo

@c All the menus can be updated with the EMACS command
@c texinfo-all-menus-update, which is normally bound to C-c C-u C-a.
@menu
* Introduction::                How to read this manual. 
* Copying::                     How you can copy and share @command{xbeach}.
* Overview::                    Preliminary information.
* Sample::                      Sample output from @command{xbeach}.
* Invoking xbeach::             How to run @command{xbeach}.
* Problems::                    Reporting bugs.
* Concept Index::               Index of concepts.
@end menu

@node Introduction, Copying, Top, Top
@chapter Introduction

Xbeach is a two-dimensional model for wave propagation, long waves and
mean flow, sediment transport and morphological changes of the
nearshore area, beaches, dunes and backbarrier during storms.
It has been developed with funding and support by the US
Army Corps of Engineers, by a consortium of UNESCO-IHE, Delft
Hydraulics, Delft University of Technology and the University of Miami.

@node Copying, Overview, Introduction, Top
@include copying.texinfo

@node Overview, Sample, Copying, Top
@chapter Overview
@cindex greetings
@cindex overview

The GNU @command{xbeach} program reads input from a file
@file{params.txt}. It produces some output and stores results
after doing calculations.

@node Sample, Invoking xbeach, Overview, Top
@chapter Sample Output
@cindex sample

Here are some realistic examples of running @command{xbeach}.

This is the output of the command @samp{xbeach}:

@example
Welcome to Xbeach
General Input Module

Building Grid and Bathymetry and....
Distributing wave energy across the directional space ....
@end example


@node Invoking xbeach, Problems, Sample, Top
@chapter Invoking @command{xbeach}
@cindex invoking
@cindex version
@cindex options
@cindex usage
@cindex help
@cindex getting help

The format for running the @command{xbeach} program is:

@example
xbeach 
@end example


@node Problems, Concept Index, Invoking xbeach, Top
@chapter Reporting Bugs
@cindex bugs
@cindex problems

If you find a bug in @command{xbeach}, please send electronic mail to
@email{dano.roelvink@@deltares.nl}.  Include the version number, which you can find by
running @w{@samp{xbeach --version}}.  Also include in your message the
output that the program produced and the output you expected.@refill

If you have other questions, comments or suggestions about
@command{xbeach}, contact the author via electronic mail to
@email{dano.roelvink@@deltares.nl}.  The author will try to help you out, although he
may not have time to fix your problems.


@node Concept Index,  , Problems, Top
@unnumbered Concept Index

@cindex tail recursion
@printindex cp

@shortcontents
@contents
@bye
